---
tags: " #DSA/Math, #DSA/Backtracking"
---
# 1088. Confusing Number II

---

A confusing number is a number that when rotated 180 degrees becomes a different number with each digit valid.

We can rotate digits of a number by 180 degrees to form new digits.

    When 0, 1, 6, 8, and 9 are rotated 180 degrees, they become 0, 1, 9, 8, and 6 respectively.
    When 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7 are rotated 180 degrees, they become invalid.

Note that after rotating a number, we can ignore leading zeros.

    For example, after rotating 8000, we have 0008 which is considered as just 8.

Given an integer n, return the number of confusing numbers in the inclusive range [1, n].

 

Example 1:

Input: n = 20
Output: 6
Explanation: The confusing numbers are [6,9,10,16,18,19].
6 converts to 9.
9 converts to 6.
10 converts to 01 which is just 1.
16 converts to 91.
18 converts to 81.
19 converts to 61.

Example 2:

Input: n = 100
Output: 19
Explanation: The confusing numbers are [6,9,10,16,18,19,60,61,66,68,80,81,86,89,90,91,98,99,100].

Constraints:

    1 <= n <= 10^9

Accepted
33.7K
Submissions
71.9K


## Solution 
---
Solution_1 is accepted.

(std::unordered_map, `while loop` inside a `for loop` to de-parse the int.

However, the consuming time is dramatically unacceptable. 
When n = 1,000,000,000, it requires around 5 mins.

## Solution2
---
Approach

    As out of 10 digits only 5 digits helps to get confusing numbers, we need to use only these 5 digits.
    If we will use base 5 number system, then we can reduce time complexity to O(log n) base 5.
    base 5 number system consists of digits 0-4. But here we need digits 0,1,6,8,9. so some sort of maping is required after getting the base 5 numbers.
    So i am intially getting counter of base 5 numbers, then converting that accoring to mapping, then checking whether the converted number(which will be decimal number as it contains digits 0-9) is less than equal to 'n' or not.
    Then for each converted number, check whether number is a confusing number or not.

Complexity

    Time complexity:

0(log n)

    Space complexity:

O(1)



