---
tags: " #DSA/Two-Pointers, #DSA/String, #DSA/Greedy"
---
# 1055. Shortest Way to Form String
---
A **subsequence** of a string is a new string that is formed from the original string by deleting some (can be none) of the characters without disturbing the relative positions of the remaining characters. (i.e., `"ace"` is a subsequence of `"abcde"` while `"aec"` is not).

Given two strings `source` and `target`, return _the minimum number of **subsequences** of_ `source` _such that their concatenation equals_ `target`. If the task is impossible, return `-1`.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** source = "abc", target = "abcbc"
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** The target "abcbc" can be formed by "abc" and "bc", which are subsequences of source "abc".

**Example 2:**

**Input:** source = "abc", target = "acdbc"
**Output:** -1
**Explanation:** The target string cannot be constructed from the subsequences of source string due to the character "d" in target string.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** source = "xyz", target = "xzyxz"
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** The target string can be constructed as follows "xz" + "y" + "xz".

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= source.length, target.length <= 1000`
-   `source` and `target` consist of lowercase English letters.
---
## Solution 1:
#DSA/Two-Pointers 
Beats 72.31%

Memory 6.5 MB

Beats 79.72%

`std::string.find(char[], size_t index)` requires `c` syntax:
```c
char arr_c[] = {'c','\0'};
```
or
```cpp
char arr_c[] = "c";
```
check `target[i]` if in `source`, if yes, return the index to `last_index`, then check if `target[i+1]` in `source[last_index+1]` and `source.end()`. 


---

## Solution 2:
#DSA/Tree 
`unordered_map`
`std::upper_bound` in `algorithm` requires a sorted target. 
Time $O(N\mathrm{log}N)$ Space O(N).

## Solution 3:
It seems that it's a fast approach. Yet to be explained.
