---
tags: " #DSA/Array, #DSA/Binary-Search, #DSA/Divide-and-Conquer"
---
# 4. Median of Two Sorted Arrays
ven two sorted arrays nums1 and nums2 of size m and n respectively, return the median of the two sorted arrays.

The overall run time complexity should be O(log (m+n)).

Example 1:

Input: nums1 = [1,3], nums2 = [2]
Output: 2.00000
Explanation: merged array = [1,2,3] and median is 2.

Example 2:

Input: nums1 = [1,2], nums2 = [3,4]
Output: 2.50000
Explanation: merged array = [1,2,3,4] and median is (2 + 3) / 2 = 2.5.

Constraints:

    nums1.length == m
    nums2.length == n
    0 <= m <= 1000
    0 <= n <= 1000
    1 <= m + n <= 2000
    -10^6 <= nums1[i], nums2[i] <= 10^6



## Solution1
Runtime: Beats 80.27% 
Memory: Beats 29.88%

Surprisingly, the approach occupies more than expected memory.
Highly likely it's due to the copy of `std::vector`.
`static_cast<double>` is memory efficient in converting an integer to a double type in C++. 
This method is a compile-time cast and does not involve any run-time overhead, making it an efficient way to perform type conversions.

## Solution2
From samkhur006. Binary Search

Runtime: Beats 95.2%

Basic idea : We create 2 partitions of elements. These partitions represent 1st and 2nd half of resultant sorted array. So if we merge these 2 given arrays and sort it, partition1 represents 1st half and partition2 represents 2nd half of our resultant array. (If m+n is odd, partition1 has an extra element as compared to partition2). Return last element of partition1 if m+n is odd. Else, return mean of last element of partition1 and 1st element of partition2. Now, we just need to create these partitions in an efficient manner.

We need to take x elements from 1st array and y elements from second array to create 1st partition of resultant array such that (x+y) = (m+n+1)/2. (2nd partition would consist of all the elements not picked up for 1st partition). We just need to check if the partition we created is valid. For this partition to be valid, we need to ensure that max element in 1st partition is less than or equal to min element in 2nd partition. This is because if an element in 1st partition is greater than an element in 2nd array, we have not split the resultant merged array into 1st and 2nd half becuase the resultant array should be sorted.
Now consider the following example for clarity. We are checking if a partition we created is valid where total size of the 2 arrays-num1 & nums2 is 12:-

Partition 1
nums1 - 0,1,2,3 //indices included from nums1 in partition 1
nums2 - 0,1 //indices included from nums2 in partition 1

Partition 2
nums1 - 4,5 //indices included from nums1 in partition 2
nums2 - 2,3,4,5 //indices included from nums2 in partition 2

As discussed, max value in partition 1 should be <= min value in partition2
so max(nums1[3],nums2[1])<=min(nums1[4],nums2[2]
Or we could split this equation into following equations:-

    nums1[3]<=nums1[4]
    nums1[3]<=nums2[2]
    nums2[1]<=nums2[2]
    nums2[1]<=nums1[4]

Since the arrays- nums1 & nums2- are sorted, equation number 1 and 3 are always true. So just check for 2nd and 4th equation

